% 3 minutes
% 1 - Basics of how quantum computers work
% -> Explain classical computer: 1 or 0.
% -> Explain quantum computer

In classical computing, we work on unit of storage named bits. They represent a boolean value: 0 or 1, there's a current or there's not. Here, we use predictable, classical physics phenomenons. Since 1965, we have more or less doubled computer power every two years. But still, to be able to 

In parallel to the development of classical computer, the physicians have developped the field of quantum physics, and one application specifically: the application of the laws of quantum physics to information processing, named quantum computing.

In quantum computing, we also work on the values '0' and '1' but with much different properties. The properties that I'll talk right now have no equivalent in our perception of the world so it is hard to "perceive" or "imagine" them. Let's imagine a quantum unit of storage. In the quantum computing field, this unit of storage can have an infinite amount of value: It can be '0', '1', or a combination of them. To be more precise, it has two basis values: '0' and '1', and each basis value has an amplitude. So in practice, this unit of storage can be 'a little bit of' '1' and 'a bit more' '0' (for exemple 70\% 0 and 30\% 1). This is called "superposition of states". This could be a property like any other in physics, until we talk about the measurement. When you measure a quantum bit, you don't get to see this "amplitude", instead you measure randomly one of the basis states (0 or 1) with the probability of the amplitude. Let's say that I have the same qubit at 70\% 0 and 30\% 1, then when I measure it I have 70\% chance of measuring 0 and 30\% chance of measuring 1.



% 3 minutes
% 2:  Applications
% 2a: Cryptography
% 2b: Simulating quantum systems (ex of cafeine molecule)

Now, let's talk about two main applications of quantum computing: cryptography.

First, cryptography. As you know, when we communicate over the internet, do payments with our credit card, etc... the data that are processed are encrypted. This means that, in theory, only you and the receiever are able to read the content of messages such that confidential information stay the same. When we talk of cryptography, on the internet, we mostly talk about the difficulty of solving a single problem: factoring large numbers.

Okay, let's say I have the number 21: I can easily say that it is equal to 7 * 3 and that no other multiplication can get us this value. However, if I give you a realy really really large number, I could always ask you what multiplication gives us this value, and in fact you could not by yourself, and it would be really hard for our computers to solve this problem. That is the basis of cryptography: not being able to factorise large numbers.

However, with quantum computers, we saw that we have the capability to execute true parrallelism. In 1997, Peter Shor proposed a quantum algorithm to solve this factoring problem. If in fact implemented, it would be able to break encryption keys used throughout our communications. You may have noted that I use conditional here. This is because the current experimental realization of this algorithm are still limited, with the latest being able to factorize 21 to 7 and 3. We are still far away from any quantum computers being able to break encryption.

This capability however has launched research to find new encryption algorithm that can are quantum safe, that are secure against attacks by quantum computers: this is called post-quantum cryptography.





% 2 min
% 3: Work during the internship
% -> Explore extending DJ algorithm
% -> Work on optimization problems w/ quantum circuit: Is it optimal to build quantum circuit or is the problem faster to build in classical ?

% 1 min
% Conclusion
In conclusion, we can say that quantum computing has a huge potential for future innovation. We are still at the beginning of this technology and it will be at least a few decades to have industrial, large scale production of quantum computers.